# RGSE Thesis Template

LaTeX document class and examples for bachelor and master theses and proposals.

Many thanks to the computer graphics research group for the basic template. It was simplified and customized for RGSE.

## General Description

The document class "rgseThesis.cls" is based on the standard class "report" for theses, and "article" for proposals.
It's intended to simplify and unify thoses documents for the research group software engineering (RGSE).
The title page and well as the declaration of non-plagiarisam is designed to match the regulations of the university and the faculty.
The class also loads importand LaTeX packages like (e.g., babel, pslatex, graphicx).

To use the document class, begin your text with

     \documentclass[<optionen>]{rgseThesis}

Your text editor should be set to use the UTF-8 encoding!
To change the encoding (for large existing texts), you may change the declaration in the cls file:

     \RequirePackage[utf8]{inputenc}  ->  \RequirePackage[latin1]{inputenc}

The following options are supported::

- bachelor|master	-  Kind of degree
- proposal    	-  Use template for proposal
- twoside		    -  Double sided printing (not recommended for proposals)
- intern|extern	-  Layout for internal or external theses, extern displays a second logo on the title pahe
- times|palatino	-  Type face TimesNewRoman or Palatino (recommended)

The type face options are exclusive, the last mentioned option will be used.

## Title Page

In proposals, the title page is adapted to the document language, for theses, the examination regulations require a title page in German.

The title page can be customized in the LaTeX preamble (before \begin{document}) as follows:

     \title{title of the thesis}
     \author{name of author}

     \programOfStudy{name of program, default "Informatik"} (not used for proposals)   
     
     \supervisor{gender m|w|d}{degreee and name of supervisor, default Jan Jürjens}
     \supervisorInfo{affiliation of supervisor, default "Institut für Softwaretechnik"}
     
     \secondSupervisor{gender m|w|d}{degree and name of 2nd supervisor}
     \secondSupervisorInfo{affiliation of 2nd supervisor}
     
     \externLogo{width}{logo filename of external institution}  width should be at most 6cm
     \externName{name of external institution}

\title{...} and \author{...} are mandatory settings.
The 2nd supervisor has to be specified for theses. For proposals, the 2nd supervisor is optional. 

## Language

The document class supports English and (N)German.
The language must be set at the begin of the document, e.g. by

    \selectlanguage{english}

or

    \selectlanguage{ngerman}
	
In proposals, the language of the title page is automatically set to this language.
Hence, the language must be selected **before** \maketitle

The title page and the declaration are generated by 

     \maketitle

The declaration is skipped in proposals.

## Bibliography/References

Citations and references are handled by BibLaTeX and biber. The literature database shoud be managed with JabRef.

The BibLaTeX definitions were extended (thanks to Katharina) by a driver for the custom entry type "standard" to properly handle standards documents like ISO, DIN, and ECSS. JabRef can also be configured to use such a custom type (see thesis.tex example document).

## Example documents

- thesis.tex (with literature.bib, content/*, and images/*)
- proposal.tex (with literature.bib)